in June and July the dry season takes
hold of the land thousands of elephants
are forced towards the few sources of
water that remain
these are on their way to the Chobe
River on Botswana's northern border
where they will converge into the
largest gathering of elephants on the
continent
elsewhere in Africa elephants are in
decline but in Botswana largely due to
farsighted conservation efforts
elephants are doing well too well
perhaps
the population here is officially
estimated at 150,000
and it's doubling every 15 years
[Applause]
[Music]
experts are worried that the elephants
will soon destroy the fragile ecosystems
on which they and so much other wildlife
depend some scientists look at
gatherings like this and predict
environmental catastrophe
[Music]
there have even been calls for a
pre-emptive cull literally shooting
60,000 elephants
mic chase is horrified by this idea he's
a native of this land he grew up in the
bush where his fascination for elephants
began and he spent most of his life
watching and studying these gentle
giants mike is concerned by the rise in
elephant numbers but he also thinks
there's more to the problem than meets
the eye he suspects that numbers here
are artificially high that many of these
elephants are refugees from surrounding
countries
driven to Botswana's safe haven by civil
war and poaching also Mike believes that
it's impossible to make an accurate
assessment of the elephant problem based
on this temporary gathering at the Chobe
River during the dry season we can see
thousands of elephants coming to quench
their thirst along this river but in the
wet season they disappear they they you
can come here and for days on end not
see an elephant elephants are arguably
the most well studied animals on the
African continent but we know so little
about their movements their movements
remain a mystery and here in Botswana
where we have the largest wilderness
area live for elephants to roam over we
we knew so little
you